---
title: "SAML 2.0 Single Sign-on (SSO)"
title_slug: "saml-20-single-sign-on-sso"
source_url: "https://support.hackerrank.com/articles/4516079405-saml-2.0-single-sign-on-%28sso%29-"
article_slug: "4516079405-saml-2.0-single-sign-on-%28sso%29-"
last_updated_exact: "Mar 25, 2026, 2:32 PM"
last_updated_relative: "Last updated 1 month ago"
breadcrumbs:
  - "Integrations"
  - "Single Sign-On (SSO)"
---

# SAML 2.0 Single Sign-on (SSO)

_Last updated: Mar 25, 2026, 2:32 PM (Last updated 1 month ago)_

Using Single Sign-On (SSO) with HackerRank allows companies of any size to leverage their existing corporate directories and authentication systems to authorize employee access to HackerRank for Work. The SSO enables users to log in with a single ID and password to access a connected system. SSO reduces password fatigue for users by reducing the number of username and password combinations that they need to remember. 

HackerRank's support for SSO is built on top of an industry-standard Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0 protocol. 

## Prerequisites to Configure SSO on HackerRank Account

- Your organization has an Enterprise plan with HackerRank.

- You must have a SAML 2.0-compatible Identity Provider service

- You must have an SSO metadata XML file or URL

Contact customer support to configure SSO. You need to provide the SSO metadata file or URL.

**Caution**: Once customer support initiates the process to generate the SSO key, users from your organization will not be able to log in with their credentials. 

Therefore, you must plan a downtime of 2 hours before you inform HackerRank to initiate the process of generating an SSO key. Customer support will generate an SSO key which you can use to configure SSO for your organization. After SSO is enabled, all users of your organization can only use SSO to sign in because their user credentials are disabled.

## Reaching Out for the Integration Help

To know more about how to use the SAML protocol for SSO, you can reach out to the HackerRank point of contact or raise a support request by writing to [support@hackerrank.com](mailto:support@hackerrank.com).
